
# Weekly Log #4

**Cory Leigh Rahman**

2020-02-23

University of Wisconsin-Madison, Master's in GIS & Web Map Programming, GEOG 777: Capstone in GIS Development

## **Introduction**

As I continue to work on Lab #1 this week I primarily focused on two things:

1. Finishing my back-end geoprocessing code
2. Further planning overall app architecture

## **1) Skills & Strategies**

Because of my focus on ironing out code details this week, my most useful skill by far has been understanding Python data structures and transformation, especially Pandas and GeoPandas. 

My new strategy cuts down on the number of technologies used and focuses on implementation.

Here is my refined stack:

| Role                      | Technology                                |
| ------------------------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| Front-end UI              | Leaflet, Bootstrap                        |
| Front-end package manager | NPM                                       |
| Back-end framework        | Flask (Python)                            |
| Back-end analysis tools   | GDAL, rasterstats, statsmodels, GeoPandas |
| Back-end package manager  | Anaconda, Pip                             |
| IDE                       | Visual Studio Code                        |

## **2) Processes & Steps**

The Python logic for my back-end analysis is now completely written and functional. The steps are as follows:

1. Get user input (distance decay for IDW)
2. Import dependencies
3. Perform the IDW interpolation on well data
4. Get the average nitrate concentration per census tract using Zonal Statistics
5. Get the appropriate attribute columns for regression (cancer rate and nitrate concentration)
6. Perform the regression analysis
7. Merge the residuals back into the data-set
8. Return two items: 1) Regression results summary text, 2) GeoJSON of residuals

## **3) Challenges & Contingencies**

The biggest upcoming challenge will be learning and utilizing Flask. I chose Flask as my server because it's a popular and apparently quick-to-set-up back-end Python web framework. It should be perfect for executing analysis written in Python in a web server, and it should not be too difficult to write front-end web code (HTML, CSS, JS) to be a user-interface for this tool. A contingency could be using a simple Python UI such as tkinter instead of building a web application.

## **4) What's Next**

The next step is to initialize a Flask app and adapt my python code to be called by a web request. After that I can begin building the UI.
