
# Weekly Log #3

**Cory Leigh Rahman**

2020-02-18

University of Wisconsin-Madison, Master's in GIS & Web Map Programming, GEOG 777: Capstone in GIS Development


## **Introduction**

At this point I've successfully automated a significant portion of my analysis in python and am working on automating the rest before building a front-end to explore the relationship between nitrate concentration in water and cancer rates.

```text
                                 OLS Regression Results                                
=======================================================================================
Dep. Variable:                      y   R-squared (uncentered):                   0.271
Model:                            OLS   Adj. R-squared (uncentered):              0.271
Method:                 Least Squares   F-statistic:                              521.4
...                                                                                 ...
```

## **1) Skills & Strategies**

My work this week was heavy in programming, spatial analysis, and statistics. I've used python to automate zonal statistics on my interpolated nitrate concentration layer, allowing me to compare average nitrate concentration with cancer rates at the same enumeration unit: the census tract. This will allow me to conduct simple linear regression with the Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) regression method.

## **2) Processes & Steps**

App life-cycle plan:

1. User visits the front-end using their web browser and the web application initializes with pre-processed results as a starting point
   - A multivariate map is displayed representing cancer rates and nitrate concentration at the census tract level.
   - Results from linear regression are displayed in the analysis side-panel
2. The user has the option to re-run the analysis using the analysis side-panel's inputs (buttons and fields)
   - Options will include 1) IDW distance decay coefficient, 2) IDW resolution
3. Once the correct inputs are received, the web app front-end asynchronously sends the inputs to the back-end
4. The back-end server: Interpolates nitrate wells, conducts zonal statistics (averaging nitrate concentration into a GeoJSON with census-block-level cancer rate data), conducts linear regression, sends back 2 things to the front-end: 1) Updated GeoJSON, 2) Updated regression diagnostics
5. Front-end web app updates display with the newly generated information, hopefully explains the results utilizing good User Experience design principles

## **3) Challenges & Contingencies**

Explaining the results of the regression to the user is going to be difficult because simple linear regression between these two variables does not tell the whole story on its own. My contingency ideas include providing explanations for key regression diagnostics, or perhaps simply just displaying the results for those who can interpret them.

## **4) What's Next**

My next steps are to finish automating the back-end analysis and then start building the architecture for the overall application and front-end.
